## 2023-01-02

- No meeting due to holidays.

## 2023-01-09

- The Steering Council had their regular check-in with Łukasz (Developer in
  Residence), and discussed planning for the next half year.
- The SC discussed and accepted [PEP 689 (Unstable C API
  tier)](https://peps.python.org/pep-0689/).
- The SC discussed and accepted [PEP 699 (Remove private dict version field
  added in PEP 509)](https://peps.python.org/pep-0699/).
- The SC discussed the state of the effort to require 2FA in the
  [python](https://github.com/python) organisation.
- The SC discussed [PEP 692 (Using TypedDict for more precise **kwargs
  typing)](https://peps.python.org/pep-0692/) and decided to ask if the
  typing community has a PEP delegate, now that the PEP no longer includes
  syntactic changes.
- The SC discussed [PEP 649 (Deferred Evaluation Of Annotations Using
  Descriptors)](https://peps.python.org/pep-0649/) / [PEP 563 (Postponed
  Evaluation of Annotations)](https://peps.python.org/pep-0563/) and how to
  move forward.

## 2023-01-16

- The SC discussed improvements to note-taking and internal processes for
  tracking agenda items.
- The SC reviewed [PEP 649 (Deferred Evaluation of Annotations Using
  Descriptors)](https://peps.python.org/pep-0649/) and opted to follow-up
  with a community poll to decide on a direction for backwards
  compatibility.
- The SC reviewed [PEP 688 (Making the buffer protocol accessible in
  Python)](https://peps.python.org/pep-0688/) with next steps to gather more
  information.
- The SC accepted [PEP 692 (Using TypedDict for more precise **kwargs
  typing)](https://peps.python.org/pep-0692/).

## 2023-01-23

- The Steering Council had their regular check-in with Łukasz (Developer in
  Residence), and discussed wanting to hire more Developers-in-Residence.
- The SC discussed whether it was worth it for Łukasz to spend significant
  DiR time on the implementation of [PEP 703 (Making the Global Interpreter Lock Optional in
  CPython)](https://peps.python.org/pep-0703/), and decided there was too
  much other work to do to focus on such an experimental project.
- The SC discussed [Petr’s proposal to host the core dev sprints in
  Brno](https://discuss.python.org/t/2023-core-dev-sprint-in-brno/22868).
- The SC discussed [PEP 582 (Python local packages
  directory)](https://peps.python.org/pep-0582/), its long history and the
  community discussion around it.

## 2023-01-30

- The SC discussed CPython's "budget" within the PSF, and using it for Core
  Developer / Triager travel grants for PyCon US 2023. Thomas will post [an
  overview of the finances and the travel grant
  policy](https://discuss.python.org/t/cpython-finances-and-pycon-us-travel-grants/23507)
  to Discourse.
- The SC discussed the Core Developer promotion process and whether it's being
  applied fairly. Consensus is that this should be discussed with the wider
  Core Dev community.
- The SC checked in on the status of enabling 2FA by default on the GitHub
  org.
- The SC reviewed and accepted [PEP 698 (Override Decorator for Static
  Typing)](https://peps.python.org/pep-0698/).
- The SC discussed what kind of presentation to have at PyCon US 2023.

